This is Esther's key for August.
It has been my privilege to serve the people of Tennessee for almost 22 years in the United States Congress.
Nearly 10 years in the House of Representatives in almost 12 in the Senate.
With this announcement, I offer myself a re-election to the Senate subject to the Democratic primary of August sports.
My platform will be my record of the past 22 years.
It is a record in which I have tried always to do the very best of which I was capable for the people of Tennessee and of the nation.
I am grateful to you people of Tennessee for the privilege of having been allowed to serve you.
I am grateful also for the interest and support you have already indicated in behalf of my efforts for a re-nomination and re-election.
It is particularly heartwarming to me because I wholly office of the United States Senator in such high esteem.
It is one of the greatest in the power of the people to confer.
And I know it is never conferred lightly.
I have tried and will continue to try to make my efforts match the challenge of the times.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, there have been a number of very important matters which I have occurred in the Congress and in the Senate this week.
As a matter of fact, I have just come from the floor of the Senate where an effort to override the President's veto of the distressed areas bill, failed by a vote of 45 to 39.
As you know, it takes two-thirds of those voting in present to override a veto and so, by the majority of the senators voted to override this veto, there was not a two-thirds so the bill as either died or will have to be rewritten.
I am worried about the distressed areas bill and this has been before the Congress for a number of years now.
The bill which passed the both houses of Congress and the Senate to the President provided for the establishment of an agency with $250,000 to try to retrain people in areas where their industries have moved away and coal mining areas where the coal has been exhausted and the people are just living there.
To get into other kinds of industry and other kinds of employment, a loans would be available for the purpose of assisting these communities and getting industries to move there to give the people employment.
There would be some, there would be retraining as I said so that they could cut in with the industries that came in.
They would also be under the housing area redevelopment program so that slums would be cleaned out and the towns and cities could be modernized.
We must realize that today our national production is only about 2.5 percent increased each year, whereas the Soviet Union is about seven.
This would help us catch up, but even aside from that these people in these communities ought to have gainful employment and they ought to be retrained.
I thought it was a worthy bill, as a matter of fact I don't know of any state that would have benefited more from it than our state of Tennessee.
Because we have many areas where there has been coal mining, where the coal has been exhausted and this bill would have kept these areas a great deal.
Around Chattanooga, around Knoxville, in the Fallet, Jellico, in an area up around Bristol and up that way as well as a number of rural communities.
What will happen now, either is that there will be no legislation or the amount will be reduced very substantially in line with the President's recommendation.
Another bill that we've just had up and has to do with watershed districts, and I think this is one of the finest programs that we've had in our country.
The idea is to prevent floods and to save the land and prevent soil erosion by having little bams and soil conservation back where the streams start.
This program has been in existence for some time.
We got an amendment to increase the amount for next year from 32 million, which was provided by the House to 37 million in the Senate, which has just passed.
And also, there's a great need for planning of these projects and engineering and connection with them.
Senator Russell, the chairman of the subcommittee agreed that he would not insist upon the reduction in the amount for planning and we go along with a full figure of 4,500,000, which was recommended by the House of Representatives.
Well, the Senate has passed the Education Bill, which is not pending in the House.
The Veterans Benefit for, to extend Veterans Benefits and GI rights to Veterans since 1955.
We've passed a Clean Elections Bill, which is still pending.
We passed Mutual Security, which is now in the House.
And the House has passed the Housing Bill, which we are now considering to continue on the Housing Program, also the Rivers and Harbors Bill, which we are particularly interested in.
In the Rivers and Harbors Bill, there's a great deal about the Memphis Harbour Project, West Tennessee Drainage, money for study of Cumberland Priest, for Percy Priest Down, and for the Cardell Holddown on the Cumberland near Carthage.
Ladies and gentlemen, this will be my last program for this session of Congress. I want to thank this station very much for allowing me to have this privilege and for you for allowing me to come into your homes and give you the news from Washington.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, this is the first in our series of television programs from Washington, as what is going on in the Congress of the United States.
This program will be done every week, and I will appreciate your comments about it, and I want to thank the station very much for carrying this as a public service.
We will try to be nonpartisan and objective in our discussion of what's happening in Congress, and we will be bringing you guest on the program from time to time.
I have on the program with me today a man that you'll be seeing a great deal of in the weeks to come, I shall call the well, and I very hence the administrative assistant who is here, and I'm glad to introduce you, Charlie, you've been introduced before.
I think the very good way to start this program today will be, Charlie, for you to ask some questions about them.
Senator, I'd like to ask some questions, I understand that Congress got in the session here on Wednesday, and how did it look up on the floor.
Well, Charlie, I've never seen anything like it, whenever Congress comes back in session, there's a whole lot of heading on another on the back, glad to see old friends, no acrimony, everybody's friendly.
And of course this year there was more handshaking, I think, than there has been before.
That, because of a number of people that are announced and unannounced candidates for president.
Well, the Senate is pretty full of either announced or unannounced candidates for the president.
We have Senator Humphries who started first in our Senate for Kennedy, and of course there are quite a number of unannounced candidates who all know about, and then of course vice president Nixon was there.
And incidentally, for a time to time, I'm going to try to bring to you people who are listening on this station, the various candidates who express their views.
I know that you'd like to hear from them. We'll bring Democrats and Republicans and try to keep it as nonpartisan as possible.
But we got off to a very good start in the new Senate. We missed my little friend Senator Langer, who was the only member who had passed away since the last session, and his successor was sworn in.
Senator, I'd like to ask you for comment on President Eisenhower's state of the Union message, which was just concluded.
Well, first I want to say that President Eisenhower is looking very well indeed, and certainly heartening to see him in good spirits and, apparently, a very fit physically.
I thought his discussion of our international affairs was very fine indeed. He outlined our aims for peace, but was being done to try to attain those aims.
He pointed out that some progress had been made, but that the intentions of Mr. Kushchev and the Russians was yet to be tested, but it would be tested as time went on.
He also pointed out that we could not be complacent that the best way to try to read some agreement for living together peacefully in the world was to be in a position of strength.
He said that we had to keep up our defenses and the outland terms about that.
I mean, I mean, a whole lot of notes about what he had to say among other things he had to say was that he was very necessary that the non-committed underdeveloped nations of the world that they have a better chance.
And that the nations of Western Europe were on their feet now to share in that effort.
I had introduced a resolution sometime back after our NATO-Lenton conference to that effective Europe challenge.
Well, what was your feeling about his domestic program? Well, I wasn't so happy about all parts of that.
He first said that the agricultural program had been a failure as we all know, but he didn't seem to have any remedy for it.
We all in favor of a school construction program, but I didn't know exactly how he was going to carry it out.
And then I certainly agree that we all have fight inflation all out at the budgetary responsibility is necessary, but what we need also is to have more competition and prices.
We need to stop this price of wage leapfrogging.
And I wasn't very satisfied with what he had to say about stopping inflation.
Well, Senator, I think we'll try to get the presidential candidates on his guests as the program's gone.
Yeah, I wish we had more time to discuss this.
Stay with the Union message, but generally I thought it was a very good presentation.
That's all the time we have now friends. Thank you until next week at this time.
Ladies and gentlemen, our friends at Tennessee.
During the past few weeks, I have received a great many letters from constituents and people in Tennessee asking that I explain something about the drug inquiry, which the Senate Committee of Ponmanopoli and Antitrust, of which I'm chairman is presently conducting.
And I'm welcoming this opportunity of doing so.
This Committee of which I'm chairman has been in existence for a number of years.
We are charged with the responsibility of investigating monopoly lack of competition in order to try to see that we do not have cartels and monopolization.
Also to try to see that the small businessman has a chance and that the consumer in the case of drugs, the patient gets a break too.
And of course, if our investigation we have investigated steel, oil, automobile, electrical equipment and many many other things.
And there was a demand that there be some investigation of the manufacturer's price, the big manufacturer's price of drugs.
I think we received a great deal more mail on this than we did all the other investigations put together.
Indeed, a number of other senators in congressmen were interested in investigation as a matter of fact, senators smathers while the resolution asking it he be authorized to make an investigation.
But we have been collecting material for some time.
Now let me tell you just what we are trying to do.
In the first place I want to make it very, very clear that this as in other cases is only investigation of at the manufacturer's level.
We are not undertaking to get into the retail investigation of retail pharmacists or drug stores or wholesalers or anybody else.
As a matter of fact, the retail pharmacist is entitled to make a reasonable profit.
His profit is less than it is in the good many other lands of industry.
And by virtue of the fact that he has to carry such a large inventory of trade names, this doesn't increase his cost.
We have the cooperation of a great many pharmacist I'm happy to say.
I'm sorry to say however that some seem to be letting the pharmacists take the blame for what should be the what is the blame of the large pharmaceutical manufacturers.
When they get complaints about prices at the retail level, they simply explain that they have to pay higher prices to the manufacturer for these products.
The second thing is that the physician is very much interested in the well fair economic welfare of his patient.
For the first time in history the cost of drugs has exceeded the cost of medical care.
Very often a physician will charge say $5 for a visit. The prescription may cost $9 or $9.5.
And the physician knows of course that his patient can get better treatment. You can get more of these good wonder drugs if the prices are lowered.
Now let's see just and the wholesaler also in the drug field is we're not investigating him and we're not blaming him.
Because he only guess a 15% differential which is little enough for him to try to do business on.
All of these are entitled a fair profit, a fair return and we're not fussing about that. We want the big manufacturers to get a fair profit too.
But we don't want them to charge excessive prices to people.
Here are the high profit industries in the United States. In 1957 was a typical year in 1958. It's about the same only drug to maybe be a little more.
You will see that after taxes, after payment for all of research and everything else the drug industry averaged almost 22% on net worth.
The average for all manufacturing was just about 11% and you see some of the others.
Well let me show you something about prices.
In the case of a prednisone which is a card-son product used for the treatment of the 11 million arthritic people who must have these pills in the United States,
the big companies charged the pharmacist is done at the same price as 17 and 9 cents per pill.
But the little companies who meet food and drug standards and qualifications charge a whole lot less.
They charge the government a whole lot less. We all in favor of research.
But the research is only about 6.5% or 7% and can account for these high prices.
We hope we'll have more time to talk about this investigation later on. Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, it's a pleasure for me to report on a substantial number of new public works projects for East, Middle and West Tennessee.
These projects were recommended by the President and his annual budget requests for the new fiscal year beginning next July.
As a member of the Senate appropriations committee, we will have an opportunity to pass on the money, which will be required to bring these projects about and of course money has to be appropriated for them to become a reality.
Well last year a tragic situation developed for one of our Tennessee veterans.
This disabled veteran was so sick he was unable to travel from Memphis to Nashville for his annual check-up as is required by the Veterans Administration.
As a result his monthly pension allotment was threatened to be cut off.
An investigation showed that all West Tennessee disabled veterans was traveled to Nashville because facilities are lacking at the Kennedy General Hospital at Memphis.
I talked with Veterans Administration Summner Whittier last autumn and was assured by him that funds would be sought by the Veterans Administration for the construction of an outpatient clinic at Kennedy General.
And I'm happy to report that this promise has been kept. The President and his budget requests asked for $137,000.
He set aside for construction of such a penny. I know many hundreds of disabled veterans who live in West Tennessee will welcome this news.
The same is all citizens who honor those who fought in defense of their country.
The tourist industry as we all know has become a multi-million dollar annual business in Tennessee.
Each year the number of tourists increases thus providing employment for many of our people and spreading the fame of our state to all corners of the world.
But like all businesses the customer must be satisfied. The President has asked Congress to appropriate more than $6 million for improvement in the Great Smoky Mountain National Park and the Foot Hills Parkway.
The largest item was $1,900,000 for completion of the long-needed 4 1 1 3rd Mile Getland Berg Barpass.
Construction of the Melton Hill Dam on the clinch revereneer Clinton and Oak Ridge will begin this year as a result of another request.
The project has been sought as a means of creating new generating capacity in our Great Tennessee Valley adding to flood control and navigation up to Clinton and Great Recreational Value.
The President recommended an initial $4,000,000,000 for initial construction work.
Hundreds of new jobs will us be made available in that area.
And when completed more good TVA power for industrial expansion and other purposes will be provided.
In the West Tennessee area more than $17 million has been requested for construction of Barclay Dam.
Although located in Kentucky, compounded waters of Barclay Dam will back up into Tennessee and provide miles of recreational shoreline and of course flood control and navigation.
Construction also will offer employment to many Tennessee and to live in that vicinity.
The core of engineers has also asked for more than $2 million for operation in maintenance along the Cumberland River and its tributaries in middle Tennessee.
Another approximately $1 million is sought for the operation of locks and maintenance of dams along the Tennessee River.
These requests should and I trust will receive approval by Congress.
The President's request included $13,600,000 for construction start of Memphis's new federal building and $133,000 for site and planning of a federal building at Dazbury.
This was indeed welcome news as was $500,000 as was the first $500,000 request for the Wolf River which has run much Shelby County Farmland for years and years.
In addition the river has been sometimes a smelly nuisance in its sluggish summer, wandering through downtown Memphis.
All of us will be glad when a new channel for the Wolf has eliminated the flood threat and the various waters.
Summing up public works projects for the state are I think they are bright for the coming year.
It will be my pleasure to report to you on the progress that has been made as they come before the House Appropriations Committee and before the Senate Appropriations Committee,
at which I have the privilege of being a member. Until next week at this time, thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, Senate within the past week took action on two bills of importance.
The first was the so-called Clean Elections Bill. After a number of amendments were adopted on the floor, this bill was passed, vote of 59 to 22 and went to the House of Representatives.
The bill strengthens the requirement for reporting of campaign expenditures in quite a number of ways.
It places a $10,000 limit on the amount any individual can contribute to any campaign.
It requires reporting of campaign contributions in connection with primaries, as well as general elections involving federal officers.
It requires reports from states and local committees spending more than $2,500 for the benefit of federal candidates.
It also provides the detailed financial statements be filed with federal district courts, where they will be available to the press of the various states, as well as with the clerks of the House and of the Senate.
The bill makes campaigns spending limitations more realistic and puts teeth on a law which has been for all practical purposes, loosely drawn and largely ignored.
An amendment that I introduced did not pass. I reintroduced this in the form of a bill and hope that further consideration may be given it.
My amendment was designed to encourage small contributions to campaigns by a much larger number of citizens. It would permit a $10 tax credit or $100 tax deduction for campaign contributions.
Turning to another subject in the field of juvenile delinquency, the Senate passed the bill, which would provide grants to the states for study demonstration projects on a nationwide scale.
The bill would also provide funds over the next five years for the training of personnel to work in the juvenile delinquency field.
Juvenile delinquency, as we all know, is one of the most serious major problems in the nation today.
It has been steadily increasing for the past ten years. A few communities have escaped this impact, and it can no longer be thought of as being confined within the boundaries of neighborhoods, local communities, or even states.
The effects of juvenile delinquency are violent, disrespect for human value, and property value, and a more dangerous weakening of our moral structure in our society.
I'm happy that the Senate has taken this positive step toward attacking this problem, and hopeful that the House will concur in the action.
I was happy to be a sponsor along with Senator Hennings of this legislation.
As I make this broadcast to you in Tennessee, the Senate is debating a constitutional amendment, which I have proposed.
This amendment would empower the governors of several states to fill vacancies in the House of Representatives in case of a nuclear attack on Washington.
Several attempts have been made in the past to get similar amendments passed, but they have failed.
I'm hopeful the Senate and the House will pass it this time with resounding majorities.
I believe the amendment is more urgently needed today than ever before. It would plug a loophole in our Constitution, which could not have been foreseen by our founding fathers.
If a nuclear attack should occur in heaven forbid that it should, it is almost certain that a large number of congressmen would be killed or fatally wounded.
Under the law is it now stands only the House of Representatives could not be quickly reconstituted after a devastating attack.
Vacancies in the judicial branch and in the Senate could be filled by appointment.
A long line of succession is provided by the Constitution and federal statutes for the Office of Chief Executive.
Vacancies in the House of Representatives can be filled only by election of the people.
If a nuclear attack were to wipe out half of our congressmen, it would be vital that the government get back in action as quickly as possible and the House could not act if a point of no quorum remained on the first date.
The Prime Amendment would enable the governors to appoint vacancies in the House of Representatives for a period of 60 days only.
The primary argument against this amendment is that it is born out of fear and panic.
To me this is the same as saying that a husband should never buy life insurance or fear of frightening his wife or that a parent should not have his child vaccinated for fear of frightening the child.
I am working hard for the adoption of this amendment SJRAS 39 and hope we will be able to amend the Constitution to take out this serious loophole.
That's all for this time. Thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, our friends of Tennessee, we were supposed to have Senator Manroney of Oklahoma on this program with us today to talk about the school bill that is being considered right now on the 4th Senate for both school construction and Senator Manroney is amendment to see that some grandinators made to the states to be the same.
Senator Manroney has been asked to be distributed by the states without any strings attached to help with increasing or paying something on teacher salaries.
Senator Manroney is speaking now and the amendment will come up for a vote very soon.
I stepped away to come on down to report to you in his place.
Senator Manroney, I would like to thank you for your support and support of the amendment that would give states the opportunity to use some of the federal money for schools,
for schools, for teachers, and what happened to that amendment last night?
Well, we saw off where the administration had proposed some lending program which for school construction which was defeated.
Then we had the Senator McNamara bill for just school construction, $500 million over a period of years.
Senator Clark of Pennsylvania offered an amendment to $1,100,000,000 to be divided by the states and their usual proportion between school construction and teacher salary.
That was defeated, $44,000 to $45,000 and the vice president voted and broke the tie so it was defeated $45,000 to $44,000.
I was lost by that very narrow margin late last night.
I spoke for the amendment as is my colleague Senator Gore because we feel that education is the greatest importance right now, not only because of our contest with the Soviet Union but for our general welfare.
We have all the schools in the world but we must start paying our teachers more than what might just pay a fireman.
We are not going to have good education. It is absolutely imperative.
Senator, do you have any expressions of support from the state of Tennessee for this bill?
Yes, I certainly have. I have had a good letter from Governor Ellington and support of it.
I have had a lot of much factual information from Commissioner Joe Morgan. They tell us the education association is actively far.
Teachers, parents, members of the parent teachers association.
What do you think Senator of the charge that the opponents of the bill have made that this bill would lead to federal control of the schools?
Well, I don't think that is well founded. We have had the moral plan that found the health of universities.
We have had the PWA program to pursue construction.
It is set in the amendment and in the bill itself that there should be no federal control that the money is a grant and aid to the states for them to use, pursue construction and for teachers.
The federal government has no right to have any administrative control, control of curriculum or anything else that can't.
In the few moments we have left, Senator, would you tell us about the SJ Reds 39 about the congressional seats that was passed this last year?
Well, before we end, I hope by the time this telecast has seen that we will have passed this national aid to education bill in the United States Senate and becomes law.
Well, we passed a very important constitutional amendment last week. I think I discussed the part of the amendment that I filed originally to enable governors to temporarily fill vacancies in the House of Representatives and they have ended up national disasters, so our Congress could go on.
That was the hall of the amendment to take away the requirement of a pool tax for voting for federal officials in the four or five states that still have it and also the Keating Amendment to give some right of the people of the district to vote for national electors for President and Vice President.
I believe, Chalice, that's all the time we have. Thank you and good-bound. Until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, they are on the program we are delighted to have one of the finest members of the United States Senate, a person that I think is a real statesman.
Senator Mike Manroney of the State of Oklahoma, Mike, we might have led the heavyweathers today.
Thank you, I have some probably here.
Senator Manroney came to the House of Representatives January 1939, same time our colleague who is his very dear friend, also Albert Gore came and I came a few months later.
Then we came over to the Senate later on. We remember that he was the sponsor of the Fowlet Manroney Bill for the reorganization of Congress and he is one of the most thoughtful members of the United States Senate.
Mike, you have been very active and I have said it to Gore and I joined with you to the extent that we could and securing passage of an education bill in the United States Senate a few days ago.
Will you tell us something about it?
This, I think, was one of the greatest forward steps the Senate has taken. The bill, as it came to us, provided roughly $500 million limited for school construction.
We, the amendment which you and Albert and some 31 other Democratic Seniors sponsored added teacher salaries as well as construction and provided for a $20 per capita payment to the States.
Thus in this amendment, the key fall for Gore and Manroney amendment and others, we raised to a degree about $400 million the annual cost of the bill but we made it possible for the States to direct whether they wanted this money for the State.
Whether they wanted this money for construction or for teacher salaries or how they wish to divide it so it is completely State-operated bill.
And one I think that properly evaluates the great and pressing need for teacher salaries to obtain the very best possible teaching and at the same time keep the good teachers still in the school as we are turn over as tremendous in the teaching profession.
Well, I, of course, led to do everything I could for his passage but you were the principal sponsor and some of us just helped.
Now, the Tennessee Education Association has passed a week at a meeting in which they were asking that there would be some little raised by the State and the school teacher salary.
These funds could be used for the purpose of, as the State saw it, for the purpose of giving some raised in their discretion.
Any way the State wishes to divide it between construction and teacher salaries and our investigation shows that the municipalities and local agencies of government are incapable of raising the funds necessary to pay an adequate salary to keep the teachers.
It doesn't make a lot of sense just to have buildings unless you can have adequate and well qualified teachers, certainly.
How about the argument that this might lead to federal control of our school?
Well, the bill is carefully guarded against that, providing that can't be any federal control. The action of the Senate showed we didn't want any federal control, didn't put it on a formula basis to what percent buildings and what percent teachers we trust the State and the local subdivision divided properly.
This does really give them some leeway and I don't think there's any danger of federal control in it.
Well, this is one of the most far-right steps that will have been taken during this session of Congress. I certainly hope the House of Representatives goes along.
I certainly do too.
I want to ask you briefly one other thing. Senator Monroni has chairman of the Committee that investigates and has to do with legislation affecting aviation.
Now, tell us a little bit about what the trouble is with so many planes falling and so many difficulties and what you have recommended.
Well, actually we're not in too bad a shape. We only ran 168th of a percent for 100 million miles past your miles blown. This is way below what we figured would be a good safety margin, but we need better ground aids, approach lighting, better runway lighting.
We need 45 percent of the accidents occur in flight in this area. We need...
You mean near the runway?
The runway to guide the pilot in for the final touchdown and only three airports have modern two-way lighting on their principal runway.
We need better air reporting. 20 percent of our air stations reporting weather are only on part-time and we need very many other things as well.
Well, you've done a great job in trying to get adequate funds for airport construction and safety control and you've gotten something but not enough.
Well, I wish we could go on. We certainly appreciate you coming on, Mike Monroni and being with us today and a lot of people in Tennessee know you until this time next week. That's all for now.